Homework 3 - BLAS Practice

In this homework, you are required to implement a simple algorithm in C
language and compare the performance of different BLAS implementations on
your program. Please consider at least four of the following BLAS libraries in
your report:
• The Netlib BLAS/CBLAS
• Intel oneMKL
• AMD BLIS
• GotoBLAS
See the NY Times article.
This GotoBlas is not actively maintained now, so it’s unclear if the code
can be easily used or not.
• ATLAS (Its GEMM is used from Kazushige Goto’s)
• OpenBLAS (An optimized BLAS library based on GotoBLAS2 1.13 BSD
version.)
• Any other implementation listed on the wiki page.

The Steepest Descent Method
The steepest descent is an algorithm for finding a local minimum or minimizing a given function. You are required to write a program with the steps:
(1) Generate or read a symmetric positive-definite(SPD) matrix A and
vector b.
(2) Apply Algorithm 1.
(3) Print the solution of Ax = b.

1

Algorithm 1 Steepest Descent method
Require: The input SPD matrix A ∈ Rd×d , vector b ∈ Rd , and a small tolerance ϵtol ∈ R.

x ← 0 0 · · · 0 ∈ Rd
ϵ←∞
r←b
while ϵ > ϵtol do
T
r
α ← rrT Ar
x ← x + αr
r ← b − Ax
ϵ ← ∥r∥2
end while
return x
▷ solution of Ax = b

Report Requirement
1. Implement the steepest descent method in C and link it with different
BLAS implementations that you choose. Note that you should utilize the
functions provided by BLAS when doing matrix, vector computations and
data copy. Also, you are required to include your code in the report
pdf file.
Tip: Most implementation (including Intel MKL, AMD BLIS) supports
the CBLAS interface. Therefore, you only need to write one version of
code and link it with different implementations.
2. Test the algorithm with a SPD matrix. Check the solution of Ax = b given
by your algorithm against the solution calculated by SciPy or MATLAB
to verify the correctness of the algorithm.
3. Compare and discuss the performance of different implementations of
BLAS with matrices on sizes of 100x100, 500x500, 1000x1000 and 4000x4000.
Are some of the implementations faster? Why? You can cite resources or
perform extra experiments to strengthen your argument.
4. You should specify whether your implementation has multi-thread enabled. Furthermore, please provide information of your environment and
hardware specifications.

2

